# Final Blog Post: An Internship at KichwaCoders

## Coming to the UK from France

To end my DUT, a two year diploma from an Institute of Technology (IUT), I had
to do a 10 Month Internship. Wanting to improve my English, I looked for
Internships abroad. Thanks to one of my teachers, I found this Internship in
High Wycombe, near London.

## Working at KichwaCoders Ltd.

Working here at KichwaCoders was a very pleasant experience. I learned a lot on
the technical level, as I worked mainly on two different projects of the Eclipse
Foundation. These were Eclipse CDT, the C and C++ flavoured version of the
Eclipse IDE; and Eclipse January a set of libraries to help a user manipulate a
lot of numeral data, you could think of it as a NumPy for Java. Two whole
different projects with two huge code bases relatively to what, I had seen
before. A lot of learning was required to start working efficiently on these,
which could be seen as a downside because you get push out of your comfort zone
over and over again, when changing from a project to an other project. I see it
more as opportunities to learn a whole lot of new stuff, on Java, on Eclipse,
and on everything else I put my hands on during the ten weeks.

But more my experience at KichwaCoders is not only work. Tracy and Jonah
welcomed us nicely. They invited us to the restaurant once a week, to
"integrate" us to team, as well as help us practice our English. I said I came
to the UK to speak and improve my English, but coming to a small company like
KichwaCoders with three others from the IUT (all speaking French), I spoke
mostly French while at work.

## Conclusion

The Internship was a great experience as it helped me grow on a professional
level, by giving me some real experience of what working in a software
consultancy is like, with all its pros and cons.
