# WEEK FIVE: What Is Working In Open-source Like ?

> Open-source software (OSS) is computer software with its source code made
available with a license in which the copyright holder provides the rights to
study, change, and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose.  \-
Wikipedia

I am Yannick Mayeur, a French computer science student currently gaining work
experience at Kichwa Coders in the UK, and this is my feeling about working
with Open-source.

## Why Open-source ?

Let me tell you a story. A company asks someone in their software team to build
some software to do a certain task. It takes him a lot of time but he manages
to do it. He is the only one working on the project so there are no comments in
the code nor any documentation to help maintain the code. He later leaves the
company, the software slowly becomes useless as nobody else knows how to use
it.

If this company had created an Open-source project instead this problem
wouldn't have occured.

Help spread Open-source - or ensure a job for life by using this
[guide](https://www.se.rit.edu/~tabeec/RIT_441/Resources_files/How%20To%20Write%20Unmaintainable%20Code.pdf)
on how to write unmaintainable code. But seriously don't.

## Get started

Getting started with Open-source is fairly easy because a lot of people write
guides or [blog posts](https://github.com/yannick-mayeur/blogposts) to help
people tackle the tricky stuff like git. all you need is a computer and
motivation!


## My feeling on the subject

It is now the end of my fifth week working at Kichwa Coders Ltd. During which
time I have worked on two different projects for the Eclipse Foundation:
* [Eclipse January](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/science.january)
which is a set of libraries to help process a lot of data. It is mainly used
by [Diamond Light Source](http://www.diamond.ac.uk/Home.html) scientists to
process the data they get from their particle accelerator.
* [Eclipse CDT](http://www.eclipse.org/cdt/) which is an IDE for C and C++, and
is used by a lot of programmers.

Knowing that I contributed to two big projects that a lot of people use every
day makes me kinda proud. And the truth is it wasn't even that hard. With my
not-that-big-knowledge of how to work on big projects I have contributed some
changes that will have a lot of visibility such as [bug
515296](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=515296) (for more details
on the bug and on how Pierre and I solved it you can read his [blog
post](https://kichwacoders.com/2017/05/17/what-can-eclipse-developers-learn-from-team-skys-aggregation-of-marginal-gains/)
about it). Because if you are experiencing a problem the chances are that other
people within the community are also experiencing it \- and their knowledge of
it can help you solve it for everyone.

## Conclusion

Knowing that other people can see exactly what code you wrote puts pressure on
you \- but in a good way. In my opinion it pushes you to give the best of
yourself.  But this community can also help you out when you are stuck with a
problem.  All this and more makes being part of an Open-source project a very
satisfying experience.
